{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff4\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f29\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Palatino{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}{\f66\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}
{\f67\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}{\f69\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}{\f70\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}
{\f71\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Book Antiqua};}{\f72\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Book Antiqua};}{\f73\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}
{\f74\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f75\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f77\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f78\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f79\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f80\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f81\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs32\lang2057\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs26\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s7\ql \li0\ri-1382\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel6\adjustright\rin-1382\lin0\itap0 \i\f29\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 7;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s15\ql \li0\ri-122\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin-122\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text 2;}}{\info
{\title Fresh from grammar school and teacher training in the seventies, I was one of the trendy English teachers who did not teach gra}{\author Christina Preston}{\operator Jane Dorner}{\creatim\yr2000\mo10\dy11\hr16\min1}
{\revtim\yr2000\mo10\dy13\hr9\min59}{\printim\yr2000\mo10\dy5\hr12\min29}{\version4}{\edmins8}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords818}{\nofchars4668}{\*\company MirandaNet}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0
\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs32\lang2057\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {Draw the net tighter }{
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs26\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {Christina Preston
\par }\pard\plain \s7\ql \li0\ri-1382\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel6\adjustright\rin-1382\lin0\itap0 \i\f29\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\i0\f0\fs22 Published in The Times Higher Educational Supplement, p 21, 13 October 200.
\par }{
\par }{Attempts to get ICT professional development for teachers off the ground are
\par not easy but forums might be the answer.}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf1 
\par I first grasped the potential of the Intern
et in teaching and learning when I was invited to work with the Enlaces team on a World Bank project in Chile just after the restoration of democracy in the early nineties. The Enlaces team connected all schools through an electronic network of computers,
 called \lquote La Plaza', 'the town square'. 
\par 
\par The Pinochet government had neglected state education. The six schools that I visited in the Andes owned no more than five books each. The buildings were stark and unheated. Teachers concentrated on blackboard explan
ation to large classes that learnt by rote. Standards were low and teachers were under-trained and demoralised.  
\par 
\par La Plaza was designed as a catalyst for change in state education. The picture of the town square on the screen was universally comprehensibl
e: a metaphor for a gathering place.  Leading teachers were selected to develop learning communities online. They received fast-track training change management. Supported online by the central La Plaza team as they worked on  raising standards and helpin
g their colleagues to rethink their teaching methods. 
\par 
\par A major benefit was access to a vast international library at the click of a mouse.  A second benefit was that teachers and pupils who had  not had a public voice for thirty years could suddenly publis
h in  La Plaza's virtual newspaper kiosk for a national audience.  
\par 
\par The third opportunity that the Chileans highlighted for me was the potential for  democratic participation and social inclusion that education networks can provide. Teachers, whatever the
ir circumstances, could participate in national and international debate. They were even encouraged to email their minister of education directly. 
\par 
\par But discussion online or in pri
nt was not easy to stimulate in a country where freedom of speech had been crushed for so long.  My Enlaces colleagues were amazed when they realised that the British Times Educational Supplement was a weekly publication. "Our profession could not provoke
 that level of controversy in a year," they declared, "but we\rquote ll get there." 
\par 
\par "Are you sure you want to get there?"  I replied. "It is easier to get a computer initiative going in a country that is used to dictatorship than in one like Britain in which the expression of diverse opinions is normal."
\par 
\par Nearly a decade later the UK government has invested \'a31.7 billion in the National Grid for Learning,  which claims the same aims as the Chileans : to increase social inclusion, to raise standards and to transfor
m teaching.  The problem is that government success in promoting  standards  has resulted in a teaching force which has no public support for transforming their teaching practices.  The National Curriculum, which has raised traditional standards, focuses 
teachers on outcomes rather than processes. Test results only reflect what can be measured, rather than the more fluid skills \endash  group work, co-operation, joint planning, negotiation \endash  that are valuable for lifelong learning.
\par 
\par The National Grid for Learning 
is not just for information transmission. Web-based interactive multimedia learning environments are the perfect catalyst to promote debate, discussion and co-operation that will be useful in all walks of life. However, building online international learn
ing communities that promote independent, constructive learning is a new science.  Without the right leaders and the right government support the whole enterprise could fail. 
\par 
\par ICT curriculum training for classroom teachers is being implemented  with a one-off Lottery payout of \'a3230 million about \'a3
500 per teacher. On the other hand, the DfEE is funding professional development bursaries for teachers to travel, so that teachers will think, not just outside the boundaries of their school building but beyond their city and country.\rquote 
\par 
\par These DfEE Teacher Research Bursaries encourage teachers to reflect on their classroom practice. But the only scheme that takes account of the needs of the advisory and management community is the Leadership College for head teacher
s, which has set up an on-line community called \lquote Talking Heads\rquote . This gives heads the experience of  informal networking and peer mentoring regardless of time or place. 
\par 
\par Senior managers and advisers desperately need more opportunities like this to share k
nowledge and experience of Internet  technologies. They are the vital yeast in the process of adopting change. A minority have skills which could help the majority, now struggling to come to terms with the changing face of ICT.  
\par 
\par Instead of taking the experienced teachers out of school, we can use new technology \endash  the Internet \endash 
 to share such skills. New research, Teachers as Innovators,  suggests that online teacher learning communities have a promising future. Fifty per cent of teachers who have had the 
experience of learning with international peers face-to-face and online are willing to mentor their colleagues for up to 15 hours a month. Clearly this is a resource too valuable to neglect.
\par 
\par Peer e-mentoring should be an essential element in the funding o
f NGFL professional development.  It might also be the tool by which the profession can build together a consensus on the educational standards needed for the future and develop a picture of how teaching and examinations can be transformed to match.

\par 
\par Too optomistic?  No doubt,  I've generated an army  of snipers  to hit the TES pages next week.  Judge by the thud on your front door mat.
\par 
\par Christina Preston, Director of the Oracle Thinking Space Programme, a MirandaNet project based at the Institute of Education, University of London. 
\par 
\par }}